Introduction and Background
1 Allied Command Transformation (ACT) is NATO’s leading agent for change: driving, facilitating, and advocating the continuous improvement of Alliance capabilities to maintain and enhance its military relevance and effectiveness. The main objectives of ACT are: providing appropriate support to NATO missions and operations; leading NATO military transformation; improving relationships, interaction and practical cooperation with partners, nations and international organisations. ACT therefore leads Alliance concept development, capability development, training and lessons learned initiatives and provides unfettered military support to policy development within NATO.
2 The exploitation of cyberspace as a domain of operations for the Alliance requires the development of new strategies, concepts, processes and capabilities to enable NATO to defend itself in cyberspace as effectively as it does in the physical domains. In this context, ACT Cyberspace Branch is responsible, among others, for developing appropriate cyberspace warfare products including platform training in a mode ‘train as we fight’’.
Aim and Scope
3 Naval forces, as well as civilian ships, are regularly confronted with large-scale electromagnetic interference affecting navigation or positioning equipment. This requires a robust and appropriate response capability, based on regular training to operate in degraded environments. To this intent, using a limited and controlled training capability for the sole training purposes of NATO naval forces would enhance the realism of exercises and bring them closer to the real threat.
4 MARCOM requests ACT to develop new training capabilities to exercise operations in an electromagnetic denied environment in support of the execution of live exercise Dynamic Messenger 2025 in September 2025.
Activities and Results
5 Within the scope of this SoW, the selected provider shall:
5.1 Develop a GPS jammer with these characteristics:
5.1.1 A portable/deployable platform adapted to the maritime environment (non waterproof)
5.1.2 A jamming of civilian grade GPS L1 frequency (1.57 GHz) and L2 (1.22 GHz)
5.1.3 An emission power adapted for effective interference limited to 500 meters maximum
5.1.4 An omnidirectional antenna
5.1.5 Laptop controlled
5.1.6 Powered by generator
5.1.7 An end user interface adapted for a non specialist user.
5.2 Develop an Automated Information System (AIS) spoofer with these characteristics :
5.2.1 A portable/deployable platform and adapted to the maritime environment (non waterproof)
5.2.2 Able to generate simultaneously up to 10 false AIS tracks
5.2.3 An emission power suitable for AIS transponder reception limited to 500 meters maximum
5.2.4 Having an interface to set up AIS information (MMSI number, vessel type, classification, registration number…)
5.2.5 Including an algorithm for updating information (course, speed, rate of turn and position) according to realistic calculation of reaching an identified geographical point
5.2.6 Including an algorithm for modifying instantaneous information (course, speed, rate of turn) to obtain realistic ship behaviour
5.2.7 An end user interface adapted for a non specialist user.
6 The deliverables shall include:
6.1 The demonstration plan.
6.2 The documentation.
6.3 The system as a service (GNSS jammer + AIS spoofer) for a temporary use.
7 At the end of the exercise, the provider will retain the system.
8 The demonstration plan shall be provided in Microsoft Office editable source formats.
